>> Mike North: One thing I wanna point
out, and we should look at this,
to see if we've done this right.
You have two options here for
sending the user on their way to a new
destination, transition to and
replace with.
And there's a difference between the two,
but before I do that,
has anyone ever found
themselves in a web app?
Where you hit the back button and
it has trapped you in that experience.
You hit the back button and it sends
you forward, you hit the back button,
it sends you forward.
So that has to do with some misuse
of the history stack, where there's
a URL in your history, and all that URL
does is forward you to a new location.
So you go back and it forwards you,
and you go back and it forwards you.
I think it's quite possible we've done
that, we've made that mistake here.
Let's, sorry, teams, let's make sure
that's the case, so I can go back here,
that's fine, let's log in
>> Mike North: I
should be able to hit back and
I should end up in the tests,
let me make this a lot more clear,
I wanna start out outside the app.
Sorry Google, and now I'm gonna
enter the app and land on Teams.
>> Mike North: I wanna make
sure I'm doing this right,
it takes a little bit of thinking here,
so I wanna be unauthenticated first.
>> Mike North: Cuz I wanna
simulate the case where, okay, so
we're unauthenticated.
I'm gonna attempt to visit Teams, and
it's gonna forward me to the login page,
everyone follow?
What I wanna make sure of, is that
when I arrive at the login page and
I hit back, I wanna be back at Google.
I don't wanna be trapped in that login
page, I wanna be able to leave the app,
we don't wanna trap our users.
So, let's try it, Teams, so
it's really quickly done that redirect and
the back button.
Okay, good, this works properly,
if it didn't,
if it hadn't,
we would wanna do replace with.
And the difference is, transition
to at the new item in your history,
replace with replaces the most recent
item in your history with whatever
you're sending them to.
So especially if you had like a multi step
forwarding process or something like that.
You would wanna make sure that
you don't like, completely fill
the user's back button with all of
those meaningless history states.
You want it to be meaningful milestones,
and
a good rule of thumb here is if you're
building a server-rendered app like,
with PHP or regular HTML,
how would you like your history to look?
Use that as your guide post, right?
And the only advice I can give you,
because this is nuanced,
actually test the stuff out.
There's no rule of thumb I know of where
it's always best to use transition to in
one situation.
Always best replaced with another,
test it out and
think about what your users expect.
So we'll leave this as transition
to because it seems to work,
and let's deal with log out.
So we'll go back to our app.
>> Mike North: Log in, and
I wanna wire up this Logout button,
so first let's add this
method in our service.
>> Mike North: Apps/services/off, and
we're going to create
a function called log out,
and this is going to end local storage,
clear, clear, looks like.
Clear is clear, everything, let's do
remove item, I don't wanna overdo here.
So we're gonna remove that
item from local storage and
send the user to the login screen.
Does that look reasonable to everyone,
that log out probably means this?
We can also make this an action.
>> Mike North: And for those of you
who have been using Ember for a while,
you maybe thinking,
you don't usually put actions on services.
Services in old ember do not support
actions, but because now action
comes in the form of a decorator,
we don't care who owns this function.
It could be on a vanilla JavaScript class,
that has nothing to do with ember,
a class with no base class.
You can put an action there,
you can put a property there.
So you can mix and match your vanilla
JS stuff, leveraging these decorators,
with components and services and
framework concerns.
So to make this logout button work,
I want this team sidebar component
to have access to the service.
And currently,
this is one of those components we created
at the beginning with just an hbs file.
So we're gonna need to
do one of two things.
But ultimately, we need access to
this service in the template so
that we can wire up the dom event for
the logout button to this logout
action we've just created.
One, which we're not gonna do,
but we could,
is you could create a helper that
gives you access to that service.
And this would let us keep that HPS file,
it's the only thing that's required for
this template.
This is not a common approach that's
taken, but it's not a bed one.
We are going to just apply
the same pattern instead, but
injecting a service onto
a JavaScript module.
Because we will need that
JavaScript module later.
So, here we go, and
follow this instruction carefully,
there is a question that will pop up,
do you want to write over an HBS file?
Do not write over it.
Ember generate component, team sidebar.
>> Mike North: And there's our question,
so this, whenever you're using ember
CLI's code generation,
it's not gonna blindly write over stuff.
In fact I could type d, and
see a diff of what it wants to put in
there versus what it would remove.
Obviously we would lose a lot of
content there, so I'm going to say no,
I don't want to delete this.
But this is a nice tool
that you see over and
over, even when you're
upgrading an ember app.
Oftentimes you'll see this where you can
just kind of compare, I could make some
changes and save them and the see
the diff again in this little tool.
So, don't override the template, and
what we've got is a JavaScript module now,
the path of it is right here,
app components team sidebar js.
And here we'll import inject as
service from ember service, and,
>> Mike North: There is our off and
actually we don't even,
we may need it later.
But since we're using it into template and
there's no autocomplete for
this in a template, I'm less excited
about putting this here, the comment.
So finally team sidebar hbs,
we're gonna go to that logout button,
which earlier in the course
we made this a LinkTo.
Remember we just said, from now all
we care about is I click log out and
I find myself at the login screen.
But now we need to do more,
now we wanna instead of just using LinkTo,
we wanna use the off
services logout action.
>> Mike North: So that the local storage
gets cleared along the way, right,
without that we're not really logging out.
User will refresh and
they'll still be there, so
let's scroll to the bottom
of team-sidebar.hbs.
There's our LinkTo, so
we wanna keep our html the same and
it turns out we'll need to
put this back as a button.
Cuz LinkTo is not gonna take care
of our local storage concerns.
So, I'm just gonna delete this, and
we're back to a button, and
we have to listen for a DOM event.
What do we use for this?
>> Speaker 2: An on-modifier.
>> Mike North: On-modifier.
Very good.
What dom event should we listen for?
All right, and here's something cool.
>> Mike North: We don't even have to let
this component worry about handling this
action, right?
We're binding straight from
this component's template,
going into the service and landing on its
logout action, that's pretty cool, right?
I like the idea of actions and
services this is nice,
a lot less code that would just
be sort of catching something and
throwing it along the way,
we don't need to do that.
Just let it go where it needs to go.